[doc][2025.1] Auto analyze service tserver and master flags (#25097)
yugabyte/yugabyte-db: docs/content/preview/reference/configuration/yb-tserver.md

When the flag `ysql_ddl_transaction_wait_for_ddl_verification` is enabled, YSQL waits for any YB-Master background operations to finish before returning control to the user.
{{< /note >}}

## Auto Analyze Service flags

Auto Analyze service flags are {{<tags/feature/tp>}}.

##### ysql_enable_auto_analyze_service

Enable the Auto Analyze service which automatically runs ANALYZEs to update table statistics for tables which have changed more than a configurable threshold.

Default: false

##### ysql_enable_table_mutation_counter
Enable counting of mutations on a per-table basis. These mutations are used to automatically run ANALYZE as soon as the mutations of a table cross 
a certain threshold (decided based on [ysql_auto_analyze_threshold](#ysql-auto-analyze-threshold) and [ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor](#ysql-auto-analyze-scale-factor)).

Default: false

##### ysql_auto_analyze_threshold

The minimum number of mutations needed to run ANALYZE on a table.

Default: 50

##### ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor

> A fraction of the table size to add to ysql_auto_analyze_threshold when deciding whether to run ANALYZE.

Author: I changed:
```
The trigger is when the mutation count becomes larger than ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor * <table_size> + ysql_auto_analyze_threshold.
```
to 
```
ANALYZE runs when the mutation count becomes larger than `ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor * <table_size> + ysql_auto_analyze_threshold`.
```

When the flag `ysql_ddl_transaction_wait_for_ddl_verification` is enabled, YSQL waits for any YB-Master background operations to finish before returning control to the user.
{{< /note >}}

## Auto Analyze Service flags

Auto Analyze service flags are {{<tags/feature/tp>}}.

{{< note title="Note" >}}

> To fully enable Auto Analyze service, you need to enable `ysql_enable_auto_analyze_service` on all YB-Masters and YB-TServers, as well as `ysql_enable_table_mutation_counter` on all YB-TServers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To fully enable the Auto Analyze service, you need to enable `ysql_enable_auto_analyze_service` on all YB-Masters and YB-TServers, and `ysql_enable_table_mutation_counter` on all YB-TServers.
```

{{< /note >}}

See also [Auto Analyze Service Master flags](../yb-master#auto-analyze-service-flags).

##### ysql_enable_auto_analyze_service

> Enable the Auto Analyze service which automatically runs ANALYZEs to update table statistics for tables which have changed more than a configurable threshold.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable the Auto Analyze service, which automatically runs ANALYZE to update table statistics for tables that have changed more than a configurable threshold.
```

Default: false

##### ysql_enable_table_mutation_counter

> Enable per table mutation (INSERT, UPDATE, DELETE) counting. The Auto Analyze service runs ANALYZE when the number of mutations of a table exceeds 

Reviewer 2: Add a new line before the heading.

> Enable counting of mutations on a per-table basis. These mutations are used to automatically run ANALYZE as soon as the mutations of a table cross 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Enable mutation counting on a per-table basis. Mutations are used by the Auto Analyze service to run ANALYZE when the number of mutations of a table exceeds 
```

> a certain threshold (decided based on [ysql_auto_analyze_threshold](#ysql-auto-analyze-threshold) and [ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor](#ysql-auto-analyze-scale-factor)).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the threshold determined by the [ysql_auto_analyze_threshold](#ysql-auto-analyze-threshold) and [ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor](#ysql-auto-analyze-scale-factor) settings.
```

Default: false

##### ysql_auto_analyze_threshold

The minimum number of mutations needed to run ANALYZE on a table.

Default: 50

##### ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor

The fraction defining when sufficient mutations have been accumulated to run ANALYZE for a table.

> ANALYZE runs when the mutation count exceeds `ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor * <table_size> + ysql_auto_analyze_threshold`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ANALYZE runs when the mutation count exceeds `ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor * <table_size> + ysql_auto_analyze_threshold`, where table_size is the value of the `reltuples` column in the `pg_class` catalog.
```

> ANALYZE runs when the mutation count becomes larger than `ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor * <table_size> + ysql_auto_analyze_threshold`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ANALYZE runs when the mutation count exceeds `ysql_auto_analyze_scale_factor * <table_size> + ysql_auto_analyze_threshold`.
```

Default: 0.1

##### ysql_auto_analyze_batch_size

> The max number of tables the auto analyze service tries to analyze in a single ANALYZE statement.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The maximum number of tables the Auto Analyze service tries to analyze in a single ANALYZE statement.
```

Default: 10

##### ysql_cluster_level_mutation_persist_interval_ms

> Interval at which the reported node level table mutation counts are persisted to the underlying auto-analyze mutations table.

Reviewer: What is the "auto-analyze mutations table"

Reviewer: Practically speaking, what does changing the flag achieve?

Default: 10000

##### ysql_cluster_level_mutation_persist_rpc_timeout_ms

> Timeout for the rpcs used to persist mutation counts in the auto-analyze mutations table.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Timeout for the RPCs used to persist mutation counts in the auto-analyze mutations table.
```

Default: 10000

##### ysql_node_level_mutation_reporting_interval_ms

> Interval at which the node level table mutation counts are sent to the auto analyze service which tracks table mutation counts at the cluster level.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Interval, in milliseconds, at which the node-level table mutation counts are sent to the Auto Analyze service, which tracks table mutation counts at the cluster level.
```

Default: 5000

##### ysql_node_level_mutation_reporting_timeout_ms

> Timeout for the node level mutation reporting rpc to auto-analyze service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Timeout, in milliseconds, for the node-level mutation reporting RPC to the Auto Analyze service.
```
